---
layout: post
title: Hindight is 20 20
---

We have all made bad decisions but it is the aftermath that kills us. We spend too much time dwelling on the past, blaming ourselves, telling ourselves "if only I had done X instead of Y the outcome would have been different". This causes too much unwanted stress.

Let me consolidate this discussion with an example. Suppose you bought some $100 worth of bitcoin on feb 2011 for $1 (100 bitcoins) a few months later it rises to $31. You believe this is absurd, you can barely buy anything with this currency, a few sites trading this currency turned out to be scams, and the lead developer Satoshi has just disappeared. So you do the reasonable thing and that is to sell all you bitcoins for a nice profit of $3000. A few years later it is July 2017 and now the same amount of bitcoin is worth $240,000. You kick yourself saying how stupid you were, how obvious it was that the price was obviously going to go up since it was revolutionary technology. 

From our example you can see that during the time of our trades we did the rational thing with the given information, no one could have predicted the explosion of bitcoin so we shouldn't stress over the fact that we failed to capture this. However this is easier said than done of course and I am sure most people are already aware of the aforementioned fact. So how do we mitigate the unpleasantness of bad trade?

I propose the following idea, when committing a trade write down the details and reasons surrounding it. This way when it turns out bad you have something to hold onto, something to tell you why you did what you did and this will help you sleep easier at night.
